Welcome to JW Broadcasting.
This month we'll consider ways we can get the most benefit from Bible principles.
Here are some highlights.
How can Bible study and meditation prepare us for trials?
We'll learn about the example of Sister Gertrude Putzinger
through an archived interview.
What principles and Bible accounts enabled her and her husband Martin
to keep their integrity in Nazi Germany?
Jehovah urges us to seek first the kingdom.
What can happen when a person seeks things in the world instead of the kingdom?
We'll listen to how this young sister learned to trust Jehovah
and lead a life that brings true happiness.
Have you ever thought that a familiar piece of Bible counsel
didn't apply to your situation?
Well, how can analyzing such counsel lead to related principles
that fit your specific challenge?
We'll see in this encouraging dramatization.
You're watching JW Broadcasting for February 2017.
You and I make a lot of decisions every day.
Now, some have a little impact on our lives.
Others have a very big impact.
And we can appreciate that we can make choices and decisions for ourselves.
Think of how life would be if you made no decisions for yourself.
Someone tells you when to go to bed.
They pick out your clothes and they tell you what to do for work.
Well, none of us would like that.
Jehovah gave each of us free will.
And that's the precious gift of making choices for ourselves.
Now, have you ever thought about why Jehovah gave us this gift?
I mean, why trust us with free will when he knew that we could make
bad choices or decisions?
One powerful reason is love.
The only way to give us the gift of love is also to give us the gift of free will.
The two are tied together.
You really can't have one without the other.
For example, if I program my computer,
they give me a message every day at 2 p.m.
John, I love you.
I think you're a wonderful guy.
I think there'd be a little something wrong with me if I thought,
oh, isn't that nice?
My computer, it loves me.
Yeah, love only exists if it comes truly from a free will expression.
Now, did Jehovah place any boundaries on free will?
Yes, they were stated in the law to the nation of Israel.
And Jesus later repeated them at Matthew chapter 22 verses 37 through 40.
He said to him,
you must love Jehovah your God with your whole heart and with your whole soul and with your whole mind.
This is the greatest and first commandment.
The second, like it is this, you must love your neighbor as yourself.
On these two commandments, the whole law hangs and the prophets.
So our use of free will has love of God and love of neighbor as its boundaries.
I mean, notice, for example, what people are doing in this picture,
both inside the circle, boundary, and outside.
See, free will allows us to do any of the things we see in the picture.
But love of God and love of neighbor move us to reject what's outside the circle
and choose to do the kinds of things that we see inside the circle.
Now, to stay within those boundaries,
Jehovah gave us a marvelous brain and a built-in conscience.
But he also knows we need more help.
And that's why he also gave us Bible principles, basic truths from the Bible
that can help us to make good decisions.
And it can safely be said that any decision we face can be guided by Bible principles.
Now, our creator, Jehovah, knows what's best for us.
And he also trusts us to make decisions based on Bible principles.
Because he knows that when we do that,
then we're really truly going to be happy, content,
and at peace with him and with others.
So in review so far, Jehovah gave us free will.
That's the privilege to make choices for ourselves.
And he also gave us Bible principles as the boundaries to our choices.
But making difficult decisions requires that we train ourselves
to recognize Bible principles and apply them.
Now, let's read Romans chapter 12 and verse 1.
And let's see how this verse describes the decision making a process.
Therefore, I appeal to you by the compassion of God brothers
to present your bodies as a living sacrifice,
holy and acceptable to God, a sacred service with your power of reason.
So, are we using our power of reason to understand Bible principles?
For example, young children ask lots of questions.
But as a child ever asked you, what happens when I drop a ball?
A pencil? A book? No, they don't ask that.
They know what happens to anything they drop. It falls down.
See, the child doesn't need rules for every object
but has quickly grasped the principle.
Anything he drops falls down.
Now, what if an 18-year-old asks you,
what's going to happen when I drop this pen?
Well, it's obvious he's not been paying attention to basic principles of life.
So by us paying attention to Bible principles,
we can very quickly see the pattern of love of God and love of neighbor.
And know the right thing to do without a long list of rules for every situation.
Well, how can we train our power of reason?
We train it by paying attention as we read and study the Bible.
Now, we don't need rules for which movies to watch,
which songs to listen to, or what clothes we can wear.
If we're paying attention when we're reading the Bible,
we train our conscience with Bible principles
so we can make such decisions without needing a long list of rules.
You know, we could compare our training our power of reason
to a blind person using a guide dog.
Now, an untrained dog would be very helpful to a blind person.
It would bark when others were around, for example.
However, a dog trained in specific skills is amazingly helpful.
The dog knows when to stop at curbs, walk around obstacles that the person right run their head into.
A guide dog is also taught a skill called intelligent disobedience.
And even if the blind person encourages the dog forward, it won't obey.
But it'll pull the person back from danger.
Now, it can take a year or more of training for the dog to learn the amazing skills
that are so helpful to a blind person.
Likewise, our raw untrained power of reason can help us to a degree.
However, it can be amazing if we take the time to train it.
Now, here are three skills that we can use to train our power of reason.
They are illustrating, analyzing, and balancing.
Now, to consider our first skill illustrating,
let's use the general topic of forgiveness.
What Bible principles could help with forgiveness?
Please think of as many principles and scriptures as you can.
Now, if it helps, you can pause the program now and write down the principles that come to mind.
Now, your list may include principles like these.
Matthew 18, 22, says, to forgive up to 77 times.
Proverbs 12, 18 says, the tongue of the wise is a healing.
And Colossians 3, verse 13 tells us, to forgive one another freely.
Now, the skill we want to learn is illustrating, creating a mental picture of an idea
or principle to see its real meaning and impact.
Now, even if we are not skilled artists, all of us can and do create pictures in our minds.
When illustrating, pay attention to things that are similar or like the thing you're trying to visualize.
For example, if sin is like dead, then forgiveness is like someone cancelling the dead.
If a hurtful remark is like a cut, then forgiveness is like seeing it heal.
If sin is like a mark on a blackboard, forgiveness is like erasing it.
A Proverbs 12 and verse 18 is a great example of using the like technique.
Thoughtless speech is like the stabs of a sword, but the tongue of the wise is a healing.
Imagine what your skin would look like if you still had every open cut, bruise or bleeding scratch since childhood.
See, Jehovah wonderfully designed our body to heal such minor cuts and bruises.
And we can now visualize how the forgiveness of others helps us to heal emotionally.
Now, learning to illustrate or visualize takes time and practice.
However, it can be one of the most powerful skills we use to train our power of reason.
And it can also be quite enjoyable.
Try at your family worship to take the principles for a topic and see how many similarities or likes you can come up with.
Now, granted, they all won't be amazing, but you may be surprised by the insights that come from seeing something from a new perspective.
Well, let's consider now our second skill, analyzing.
Now, analyzing something means examining it carefully in detail.
And let's use the topic of wrong desires.
Now, in this case, let's say we've already found the principle at Colossians chapter 3 and verse 5.
Deadened, therefore, your body members that are on the earth as respect sexual immorality, uncleanness, uncontrolled sexual passion, hurtful desire and greediness, which is idolatry.
Now, what can we learn from analyzing Colossians chapter 3 and verse 5 to help when we struggle with wrong desires?
Again, feel free to pause the program if you want some time to think about it.
Look carefully at each step outlined.
Did you notice, for example, what appears to be a reverse order of the steps leading to sin?
This verse works its way from sexual immorality back to the very roots of the problem.
Now, let's take each phrase starting with the last, greediness, which is idolatry.
So sexual immorality starts with selfishness, greedily putting our needs ahead of anything else.
Next is hurtful desire.
Greediness leads to hurtful desire.
It's like a person hanging around a bakery, smelling the bread and cakes when he can't pay for it.
Likewise, hanging around immoral entertainment or bad associates can feed hurtful desire for what is not ours.
Next is listed uncontrolled sexual passion.
So hurtful desire has now turned from an idea into a strong emotion of passion, causing one to look for an opportunity to fulfill the desire.
Next, uncleanness.
The previous steps have now led to inappropriate physical contact with another person.
Finally, sexual immorality. Serious sin.
Sexual immoralities occurred between persons that are not married to one another.
So analyzing Colossians chapter 3 and verse 5 can really help us to eliminate not stimulate wrong desires.
And we can see how important it is to get rid of wrong desires immediately.
It's easier to walk away from sin when we're still in the early stages rather than later.
So we need to practice a skill of not simply just reading scriptures, but analyzing them until we've learned all that we can.
And we can use the many research tools we have to find valuable comments and application.
Now let's consider our third and final skill balancing.
And to do that, let's use a question on the topic of alcohol.
What Bible principles could help a couple to decide whether to serve alcohol at their wedding?
What principles and scriptures do you think would help them make a balanced decision?
Again, you're welcome to pause the program and if you'd like to write down what comes to mind or to research something.
Now, your list probably has some of these principles.
At John chapter 2 and verse 9, Jesus made wine for a wedding.
However, 1 Corinthians chapter 6 and verse 10 says that drunkards will not inherit the kingdom.
And 1 Corinthians 10, 31 and 32 says, whether you're eating or drinking, do all things for God's glory, and to keep from becoming causes for stumbling.
Now, it doesn't seem that any one principle provides the answer.
The couple could simply say, well, Jesus served wine at a wedding, so can we do?
However, there's really more to it than that, isn't there?
It's clear that a balance of all these Bible principles is needed.
Will relatives or others be there who might be prone to over drinking?
Serving alcohol bother the conscience of many present because of local customs and feelings about alcohol.
It's often the case when making decisions that we need to balance several Bible principles not taking any one principle solely on its own merit.
Jehovah expects us to use our power of reason to balance Bible principles and make good decisions.
Ecclesiastes chapter 7 and verses 16 through 18 gives us good advice about being balanced.
Do not be overly righteous nor show yourself excessively wise. Why should you bring ruin to yourself?
Do not be excessively wicked nor be foolish. Why should you die before your time?
It is best to grasp one warning without letting go of the other,
where the one who fears God will heed them both.
How true. Such balance between extremes is often necessary when we apply Bible principles.
We need to heed them both, so to speak.
We need to balance all the Bible principles so we can come to the decision that would show love of God and love of neighbor.
We could illustrate the balance between different Bible principles and applying them with this modeled bike.
It was a gift from a brother in Malawi.
Now, a bicycle has three basic principles of operation, the brakes, the pedals, and the steering.
Now, the brakes are really like principles that slow us down or stop us from doing the wrong thing.
And the pedals are really like the principles that move us forward in showing love for Jehovah and our brothers and sisters.
And the steering is like our free will to choose a direction in life that pleases Jehovah.
So making decisions is like riding a bicycle. We have to balance several Bible principles.
So in review, Jehovah gave us free will to use within the boundaries of love of God and love of neighbor and many other fine Bible principles.
Making difficult decisions requires that we train our power of reason to recognize Bible principles and apply them.
And we discussed how to train our power of reason with the three skills illustrating, analyzing, and balancing.
So no matter what decisions you're faced with, we encourage you, let Bible principles guide you.
Let's use the following dramatization to practice the skills we've just discussed.
In this video, three witnesses all hear the same familiar Bible counsel at a Christian meeting.
And at first, it doesn't seem to apply to anything they're currently experiencing, but it does.
Maybe that's happened to you.
As you listen to their reasoning, what do you think they could do to let Bible principles guide them to making a good decision?
We must know Jehovah well. That means knowing his thinking on matters. We should welcome such an examination and make any necessary changes.
For example, let's read 1 Corinthians chapter 15 and verse 33 together.
Here we read,
Do not be misled. Bad associations spoil useful habits.
As familiar as that principle is, can you think of an area in your life where it's difficult to apply?
Hey, John. I know it's not unusual, but there's no one entertained those clients tonight. So can you do it? Thanks.
Till then, it wasn't my usual thing, but I need to support my family.
And these aren't really my friends. I can handle it.
I think we're faced with bad associations in subtle ways.
This may require us to ask additional questions of ourselves.
Are we letting in bad association through social media?
Perhaps we can think of another way, Madison.
I don't think so, except for some friends for my old congregation.
Wow, they're not doing so well spiritually.
But if I stay connected and see what they're doing, maybe I can help them.
This can affect us.
Maybe it's something very specific.
Or maybe bad association is coming from a place we never expected.
I only join games with witness friends, I know.
But sometimes they connect with people I don't know.
Who pick games? I'm not sure we should play.
But maybe my friends know them.
They're probably okay.
Vital that we avoid bad associations.
Now, as we resume in Psalm 26...
The basic principle in this story is one we all know.
Bad associations spoil useful habits.
But do our three friends find themselves in the same situation
where they can simply apply 1 Corinthians 15, 33 in exactly the same way?
No.
Our family head is concerned about supporting his family.
Our sister wants to stay in touch with her friends in hopes of helping them spiritually.
And our young brother didn't know exactly who his associates were.
Are you already thinking of additional principles
that would apply to each person's problem?
How would you illustrate, analyze, or balance those principles
if you were in their position?
If you want to, pause the program here.
Take the time to write down what you're thinking.
Then watch how they each search for Bible principles
and train their power of reason.
I thought that talk didn't apply to me.
But can I really handle bad association?
If I take a stand, I may lose my job.
But that's being anxious about tomorrow.
Jesus said, so never be anxious.
And say, what are we to eat?
Or what are we to drink? Or what are we to wear?
Jehovah knows I need a job.
And I need to set a good example for when my children face bad association.
1 Corinthians 15, 33.
My friends' posts are getting worse.
They're pictures and comments.
2 Timothy 216.
But reject empty speeches that violate what is holy.
For they will lead to more and more ungodliness.
I'm letting them share empty speeches with me online.
I will try to help them while I still can.
But following their posts is not the way to do it.
I told Mom what's been happening when I came with my friends.
She gave me good ideas on what to look for in the research guide.
Christian life.
Association.
Is your recreation beneficial?
Who are my companions?
It says, who are the ones I want to share my leisure time with?
Does he have the same Bible-based values and morals that I have?
Good question.
I don't even know who they are sometimes.
Psalm 11963 says,
I am a friend of all who fear you,
and of those who keep your orders.
But if I only know them online,
I can't know if they fear Jehovah.
Let's turn in our Bibles to the book of 1 Timothy chapter 1.
Verse number 5.
And notice how it reads.
Really, the objective of this instruction
is love out of a clean heart and out of a good conscience
and out of faith without hypocrisy.
We train our conscience
with Bible principles that reveal Jehovah's thinking.
There may be several principles needed for our unique problem.
But when we find and apply them,
we'll enjoy a clean heart and a good conscience.
How did their Bible principles and meditation compare
to what you were thinking?
Now, you may not have come up with the same scriptures and thoughts,
but that's okay.
The important thing is that by training our power of reason,
we're aligning our thoughts with Jehovah's thoughts.
Did you see the three skills in use?
The young brother was able to visualize his potential friends.
He couldn't see them literally,
but knowing they didn't fear Jehovah
or keep his orders,
painted a picture of the kind of associates they might prove to be.
When our sister analyzed 2 Timothy chapter 2 and verse 16,
she saw the social media comments
were similar to empty speeches that could weaken her faith.
And the family had balanced his family responsibilities
by applying the principle at Matthew chapter 6, verse 31,
where Jesus said not to be anxious over material things.
And we can imagine him trying to work the matter out with his boss
while trusting Jehovah to care for him and his family
no matter what might happen to his job.
Think now about another principle in Matthew chapter 6.
Jesus tells us in verse 33 to seek first the kingdom.
Young ones especially face temptations,
both large and small,
to seek things in the world instead.
And sadly, some have ignored Bible principles they have learned.
They've looked for happiness in what appears
to be the exciting possibilities of the system of things.
In this truth transforms life's segment,
Sister Annalise Zalina explains what led her to a similar choice
and what drew her back to Jehovah.
Growing up in the truth,
I felt like I fit in more with my friends at school
or people who weren't witnesses.
I was living a double life and I knew it.
I was not baptized.
I had always tried to make the truth fit in with the world.
And this time I decided I just want to give the world a shot
and see what that's like.
I came right to my parents and I said I want to move to LA
and pursue modeling.
I had my first job within the week.
It looked so glamorous.
There's a lot of parties going to the coolest houses,
getting to hang out with celebrities.
There are new rules.
You have the money to do whatever you want.
That lifestyle was so far from what I was raised knowing I was right.
That I basically had no relationship with Jehovah.
Once all the smoke and mirrors are gone,
you see these things for what they are.
I remember I called my mom and I told her it's like Sodom and Gomorrah.
I'm literally in the middle of it all.
And I thought like this is it.
This is what everyone says is the best.
And I'm not happy and I just thought so dull, empty.
And I actually thought to myself, I wish I was never raised to witness.
I wish I never even knew Jehovah existed.
There were certain nights where I needed him.
I was thinking just pray, just go to him.
And I couldn't.
I thought I would never be able to come back to Jehovah.
One of the jobs I got hired to do was work for this young fashion company
in between different outfits and shoots.
You know, you talk with a photographer.
So what are you guys going to be for Halloween?
That doesn't celebrate Halloween.
It's not a Jehovah's Witnesses.
So am I.
It's not a joke.
No, I was raised as witness.
Yeah, I was raised as well.
Do you go to meetings?
No, I haven't been in forever.
What about you?
No, I haven't.
I got a last minute job to New York.
I decided to walk the Brooklyn Bridge.
I knew Bethel was there and I'd never been to Bethel.
The sister stopped me on my tour and she invited me up to her office.
There were different paintings of the resurrection.
She asked me, you know what, the people are waiting on the balcony.
And I was like, I don't know why.
And she said, because they're waiting for their loved ones to be resurrected.
It was as if something just went straight to my heart.
I've never felt something like that.
I had for the first time actually seen the resurrection and believed it.
It wasn't just the saying that might happen.
It was for sure.
I knew exactly what it was going to look like.
I would be standing there pulling that balcony looking for my loved ones to come back.
I had to be there.
The resurrection.
It's so real to me.
The second I got out of Bethel, I, I called my mom and I told her in slays and mom.
I'll be back.
I know exactly what I need to do.
I'm coming back to Jehovah.
I had made up my mind, you know, I'm going to give Jehovah a chance.
But, you know, I'm coming back to truth.
I'm going to do it right.
There was an elder who was doing the watchtower.
And he just came off so kind that I thought, you know, when this meeting ends, I want to talk with him.
And I'm going to explain to him why I'm here.
I knew I had so many changes to make.
Matthew 6, 33, is so important to me.
Seek first the kingdom.
My entire life.
I saw everything I was before Jehovah.
I never put him first.
And I, for the first time, was saying, okay, Jehovah.
I'm going to put you first.
The job I have right now isn't necessarily my dream job.
But it allows me to do exactly what I want to do for Jehovah.
And that's fine here.
I used to walk down Hollywood Boulevard going from casting to casting with my portfolio in hand.
And now I walk down Hollywood Boulevard with a cup in my hand.
Out in the ministry, I see models that I used to work with.
And I love getting to show them this is my new life.
And this has changed my life.
I am so happy.
I know what it's like to superficially feel good.
But to literally have the joy, the happiness, I want to share that with everybody.
Jehovah completely changed my life.
We're so happy that Sister Zelina returned and dedicated her life to Jehovah.
Even though she wanted to forget what she knew about God,
the things she had learned about him kept coming back to her mind.
Finally, when she saw the picture of the resurrection while touring Bethel,
it was a powerful reminder of Jehovah's love.
Really, Sister Zelina's Bible-trained conscience was at work the entire time.
Young ones, please know that Jehovah does not want to hold you back from having fun.
And he doesn't want you to feel guilty for the desire to use your talents and to enjoy life.
But he does want to protect you from spiritual dangers.
And he asks you to seek first the kingdom in these last days.
Proverbs 10 and verse 22 puts it well.
It is the blessing of Jehovah that makes one rich,
and he adds no pain with it.
It is Satan's system that adds any pain we may experience.
Sister Zelina and so many others have found that scripture to be true.
So often, young ones who choose to give Jehovah their best
are blessed with ways to use their talents and interests in sacred service.
Jehovah wants you to be part of the exciting fulfillment of Micah chapter 4 and verse 2,
where nations are saying, come, let us go up to the mountain of Jehovah.
Well, that verse was the daily text and part of a morning worship discussion by Brother Jeffrey Jackson.
Micah's prophecy is being fulfilled now,
and it results in our worldwide Brotherhood and highlights the need for Christian unity and neutrality.
So, Brother Jackson asked an interesting question.
How important is our neutrality?
It's true, isn't it? When we look at this prophecy in the book of Micah,
it's very exciting because it portrays to us what's actually happening among God's people today.
We know that, although in the new world, there will be a tremendous unity displayed by God's people,
chapter 4 of Micah is actually portraying what's happening now, and we're involved with this.
And we know that because in verse 5 says at the same time that this unity would be evident,
all the peoples will walk each in the name of its God.
Well, that's not talking about the new world, is it? It's talking about the time we're living in now.
But what is it that helps all of Jehovah's Witnesses worldwide to be so united
and not to be involved with the wars of this world?
Well, one of the things that helps us is our Christian neutrality.
What do we mean by neutrality?
We mean not taking sides in political issues.
Of course, we take sides with Jehovah and the Kingdom,
but with regard to worldly political debates and issues that rise, we don't take sides.
Why is this so important?
Well, let's turn our Bibles to Revelation chapter 13, Revelation 13 verses 16 and 17.
And here it tells us, it puts under compulsion all people,
the small and the great, the rich and the poor, the free and the slaves,
that these should be marked on their right hand and on their forehead,
and that nobody can buy or sell except a person having the mark,
the name of the wild beast of the number of its name or the number of its name.
What's the point of this verse?
Well, of course, we will look forward to seeing how this may turn out in the future
and what pressure is put on God's people at that time.
But even now we see the principle here that the political system is wanting to put its mark on us,
mentally as well as physically.
So we see the forehead as well as the hand being involved.
So we need to be absolutely certain that we remain neutral with regard to political issues in the world,
not only by not being involved actively in the political issues, but also mentally,
not allowing ourselves to take sides.
What are some of the things that perhaps could erode our neutrality?
Well, maybe we could mention three things this morning.
One is the propaganda that the world puts forward.
And we have seen what the media says about Jehovah's Witnesses' Heaven.
We have distorted some of their reports and how they can paint a negative picture with regard to us.
Well, should we expect that they are neutral with regard to other events that they report on,
particularly when there are conflicts between two nations.
The media in one particular nation may promote certain ideas about the other nation.
We may be affected by that.
We may be surprised perhaps to visit some other countries that have a different political ideology
and be surprised to see how things perhaps were a little different in that country
to how it's portrayed by the media in our country.
So we need to be careful not to be influenced by the propaganda of this world,
particularly media reports and so on.
What's another thing perhaps that could cause us to lose a measure of neutrality?
Sporting events.
Sometimes sporting events were able to achieve certain goals with regard to nationalism.
We see the national anthem being played many of these events.
It reminds me many years ago when I was in a different country.
A friend of mine asked me to record a certain sporting event.
I wasn't particularly interested in the event, but because he made this request, I recorded it.
And of course, I wanted to make sure that I'd got the last 10 minutes of it.
I thought a friendship may be strained if I didn't get the actual last part of the game.
But I watched it. It was absolutely exciting, now biting finish.
Well, after the brother gave me back the video tape, I thought maybe some of the other brothers
who would be interested in this sporting event may want to have it rather than just wipe the tape.
So I offered it to several.
And each one of them said to me, no, thanks.
If we had one, perhaps it would be different.
Now, what was the problem?
As I said to them, were you watching the game?
Or were you taking sides?
An interesting concept, because here two different nations were involved.
So we have to be careful that even sporting events don't stir up within us
in certain nationalistic feelings.
And perhaps we could take sides with regard to certain events.
The third area that perhaps could erode our neutrality,
the political promises being made, particularly the election time.
Perhaps one of the candidates is from our ethnic background.
Or perhaps it's the same gender as we are.
When we look at the political situation, these days with many elections,
it seems to be more in the form of entertainment than anything else with music and very colorful characters.
But if we were to say in our heart, I hope that idiot doesn't get into power.
Are we neutral?
Or were still, if we say, I hope the other person gets into power?
Well, we need to be careful, don't we?
I remember many years ago as a young pioneer in Australia,
I was facing the conscription issue, the national call-up for the military,
at that time the Vietnam War was being fought.
And then there was an election in Australia.
And at that time, the party that was trying to get into power said that if they got into power,
they would abolish conscription.
So now that affected me personally.
I remember how hard it was sitting there watching the election results,
not to say in my heart, I hope they get in.
And then when they got in, not to say, yes.
You see, if we personally are affected by some of these political promises,
we may violate our neutrality.
So brothers and sisters, let's work hard at remembering that we're no part of this world.
We support the best government that could ever rule this earth.
And by doing so, we will keep our neutrality and we will keep our unity.
When neutrality is mentioned, isn't it true we often think of taking a stand during times of war?
But brother Jackson reminded us that neutrality is something we do every day in our thoughts and in our speech.
What a good example of analyzing a Bible principle to understand its full meaning and application for us.
Of course, there are times when governments do pressure God's people to renounce their faith or take up arms.
This happened to sister Gertrude Putzinger and her husband Martin in Nazi Germany during World War II.
Now later in life, brother Putzinger was a member of the governing body.
And he finished his earthly course in 1988.
Sister Putzinger continued faithful until her death in 2003.
In an archived interview, sister Putzinger described her wartime experiences.
How did Gertrude and Martin, like thousands of our spiritual brothers and sisters, keep their integrity through brutal persecution?
I worked underground and travelled in Celetia.
And at that time, I visited the family with copies of the watchtower.
They catched me and arrested me in the rest.
And there, there was the same strong interrogation.
And Jehovah held me in a wonderful way.
I was surprised by myself what kind of thoughts came in my mind.
When they asked me, did you know that the organization of the watchtower is forbidden by the government?
I was saying, sure, I noted, why you were working underground against our command?
Then I was saying, the German judgment, they acknowledge the command.
You have not to steal, not to lie, not to murder.
And this came from the wasiah law, it's from the Bible.
If you acknowledge this command, then you have to acknowledge the other command too.
The Bible is saying, you have to watch to come together and to encourage one another.
How can I do it if I would be ashamed to met them?
I want to do the will of God.
This is a command meant.
The church was saying nothing. He spoke with it.
Besides church, but he gave no answer.
I was sentenced at first five years.
And later on, they gave the go down to three and a half years.
Because I was so young, I was 25 years of age.
So I started my solitary confinement.
But Jehovah's spirit made me a real joyful.
Every day I was thinking, now I have to make every day a special object to think about.
In fact, I want to think about the qualities of Jehovah.
I start this with the more.
So I put my finger in the ear and forth running to and fro and fro.
I want nothing to hear outside.
So wonderful thought and I was happy.
Then when that was over, then I start what is hope.
What is faith?
I start to think about the fruits of spirit.
You have a lot of.
Then I have so much to think and the time runs after three and a half years.
The Gestapo called me again and gave me declaration.
I have to sign that I never want to be in connection with the Jehovah's Witnesses
and that I refuse to learn more from the Bible.
And I say, no, never.
He said, you can think overnight.
No, I want not to think overnight.
And immediately I say, never, I will do it.
Never, I will understand it.
And then he was saying, then you have to take the consequences.
You will come transferred to the concentration camp.
And when I came and they ordered, I have to put all my breath out to give them away.
And then I have to stay with other prisoners, several hours in a big bathroom.
And we have to wait till the doctor will see us.
And then it was so humiliating.
They want to humiliate and they want to make a down.
And the old women between the young girls, they were so strong ashamed.
You saw it, how they suffered.
I never will forget it.
And after we get the new breath from the camp
and they were trying to go to the panicked barrack.
And then that was a terrible night.
So many prisoners, they were crying tonight.
And other women, women have to vomit.
Although it was a terrible night.
The next day we have to go for rocking.
We had so strong to work from morning in summer time.
From five o'clock we were on the roll, God bless.
Till evening they have no luck.
Then the quarantine came.
We have no to go out.
They closed the door.
They give us our meal by a through the window.
And we have fine time to have rest.
We encourage one another with spiritual interest.
And the doctor came knocked the window.
Who died in your barrack?
Nobody.
No one.
Our old weak sisters.
They overcome all.
Never.
Some were bekam sick.
So it was real.
A good witness for the other.
In the camp.
My husband was in the concentration camp.
First in Dachau and later on in Mauthausen.
They worked in a stone quarry.
And in that group, a brother had to bat shoes.
They were too tight for him.
And he took them out.
And he had forgotten to take them.
And for the don't worry to the camp.
And my husband wanted to help him.
And he was running to pick up the shoes.
And the watchman observed that he ran away from the group.
His punishment was to hang for one hour on the pale.
When I asked my husband,
how did you overcome such a thought?
Then he said, I was thinking.
How was the situation when Abraham had to kill his son?
And this was a long way.
I was all right thinking.
What was his thoughts?
How had he overcome his feeling?
And what Jehovah wants for him?
And then this way, he didn't feel anymore.
After one hour, when it came down,
the other brother was saying,
you don't look as you have been on the target thing.
So Jehovah can help us in all such situations.
Every situation had some what was not so easy.
But in every situation,
we have a touch of wonderful help.
Jehovah's spirit, and we could pray.
Jehovah's name is the most important part in our life.
Nothing is so important like Jehovah's name.
Did you see the ways Jehovah blesses
Mr. Putzinger's determination to stay loyal under pressure?
At Matthew 10 and verse 19,
Jesus told his apostles,
when they hand you over,
do not become anxious about how or what you are to speak.
For what you are to speak will be given you in that hour.
Now she may have felt that same assurance
when arrested and interrogated.
Then when tested in the camps,
they were not even meditated on Christian qualities
and the faith of Bible characters.
And finally, they, like so many witnesses,
were helped to survive because of the love and care
of their spiritual brothers and sisters.
Sister Putzinger used her experience to encourage others
in her later assignments.
For example, in the interview with William and Sandra Malinfont,
Sister Malinfont remembered working with Sister Putzinger
in the Bethel-Sowing Department.
After a memorable sewing illustration,
she likened each prayer to adding another thread
to a strong cord that unites us with Jehovah.
You might enjoy watching that interview again
in the interviews and experiences section
under blessings of Sacred Service.
Later this month, you'll also want to watch
a new original song under the music section.
In the April 2016 program,
a group of young ones explained why they visited Bethel
and what they enjoyed seeing.
While there, they also sang a song about their experience
with the help of Bethelites at the branches they visited.
And we have a music video to enjoy in this month's program.
It's called Stop, Think, and Pray.
No matter what the problem is, we should always take time
to think about Bible principles and pray
for Jehovah's Holy Spirit.
I've been troubles around
and the whole situation is guiding you down.
So called friends, they just want a reaction.
Turn to Jehovah and pray, silently pray.
Don't give up, don't give in.
Put your trust in Jehovah.
Keep it calm if it stops and can pray.
When there seems no way I'll be there.
Always by our side, he will be our guide.
Never doubt.
Don't you stop and can pray.
Make Jehovah smile.
Let him show the way.
He day will have troubles to share.
There are bills to be paid.
And so one smile.
But I will solve the way.
Jehovah will always bless us when we go to him
and pray with our concerns.
Whatever the situation, he can give us the power beyond
what is normal.
And as we learned and practiced in this program,
we do our part by training our power of reason
with the principles from his written word.
Finally, we have greetings from the Vestoral and Islands in Norway.
These islands are home to 30,000 people
who enjoy the beautiful fjords, mountains and com beaches.
The 53 publishers in the Surtland Norwegian congregation
preach in a territory that covers 1,800 square kilometers
or 695 square miles.
Their thorough witnessing takes them into the beautiful countryside,
as well as to the city of Surtland for metropolitan public witnessing.
Each year, they organize trips to an assigned territory
where they often meet people who show deep respect for the Bible.
One Saturday each month, after the ministry,
they gather to watch the JW Broadcasting program
and enjoy spending time together.
Progressive Bible studies and a Russian group
join them each week at their meetings.
We send our love and greetings
and thank them for their Christian love and example of faith.
Thank you for watching.
From the World Headquarters of Jehovah's Witnesses,
this is JW Broadcasting.